Defined corporate blackface and related it with digital blackface (#340)
selfdefined/web-app: 11ty/definitions/corporate-blackface.md

---
title: Corporate Blackface
slug: 'corporate-blackface'
speech: noun
defined: true
excerpt: the idea that corporations declare support of the Black Lives Matter movement, without actually committing to implementing real change within their company
reading:
  - text: You Can Keep The Corporate Blackface
    href: https://www.tanyavital.com/news/keep-the-corporate-black-face
  - text: Executives need to move beyond 'corporate blackface'
    href: https://www.ft.com/content/77506820-deac-47b8-a44c-e588a5b8b92d

---

> the idea that corporations declare support of the Black Lives Matter movement, without actually committing to implementing real change within their company

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the idea that corporations publicly declare support of the Black Lives Matter movement, often with vague language, without actually committing to or implementing real, systemic change within their company to support Black employees, clients, customers, and community
```

## Examples

> - For example, a company tweets Black Lives Matter. But the company has a toxic work culture, and discriminates against its Black employees. It refuses to enact effective policies or diversify its teams, and yet, it has the audacity to post a soldarity statement, claiming to support Black lives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For example, a company tweets Black Lives Matter. But the company has a toxic work culture, and discriminates against its Black employees. It refuses to enact effective policies or diversify its teams, and yet, it has the audacity to post a soldarity statement, claiming to support Black lives.
```
I think here a couple of conceptual examples would be good, but also showing more concrete examples, like "A company shows photos of Black users in its marketing materials, but didn't include Black folks in any of its user research." Or, "An all white-led company tweets about its support of Black Lives Matter without addressing its complicity within white supremacy."

Author: Sorry about the delay, but I just added some more examples in addition to the ones you recommended. Let me know if there are other changes or examples I should add. Thank you!

---
title: Corporate Blackface
slug: 'corporate-blackface'
speech: noun
defined: true
excerpt: the idea that corporations publicly declare support of the Black Lives Matter movement, often with vague language, without actually committing to or implementing real, systemic change within their company to support Black employees, clients, customers, and community
reading:
  - text: You Can Keep The Corporate Blackface
    href: https://www.tanyavital.com/news/keep-the-corporate-black-face
  - text: Executives need to move beyond 'corporate blackface'
    href: https://www.ft.com/content/77506820-deac-47b8-a44c-e588a5b8b92d

---

the idea that corporations publicly declare support of the Black Lives Matter movement, often with vague language, without actually committing to or implementing real, systemic change within their company to support Black employees, clients, customers, and community

## Examples

When a company:

- releases statements, claiming to support Black lives, but fails to fix the toxicity and discrimination against Black people within their own company culture

> - openly showcases black people in its marketing materials, but doesn't actually include Black folks in any of its user research

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- openly showcases illustrations and or stock photography of Black people in its marketing materials, but doesn't actually include them in any of its teams and/or user research
```

> - as all-white leadership and tweets about its support of Black Lives Matter without addressing its complicity within white supremacy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- has an all-white leadership team and tweets about its support of Black Lives Matter without addressing its complicity within white supremacy
```

> - does little to increase diversity and inclusion of Black voices in their company while stating that they are fighting for diversity and inclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- does little to impact policy that disproportionately and negatively influences their Black employees, clients, and/or customers
```

> - claims to care about diversity and representation, but then fires their leading engineer, who also happens to be a woman of color, for calling them out on their racial bias

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- claims to care about diversity and representation, but then retaliates against/terminates a Black employee for identifying and speaking out on anti-Blackness they experience in the workplace
```

- no longer actively tries to increase diversity and inclusion in their company after Black Lives Matter is no longer trending on social media

> There are so many ways that corporations show again and again that they only really care about their image, rather than Black lives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the list above is finite, there are many more ways that corporations show again and again that they only really care about their image, rather than Black lives.
```
